letters/modernized/04-chapter-3.adoc, before:

== Chapter III. An Address to His Father and Mother

[.salutation]
Dear Father and Mother,

My endeared love abounds towards you,
and in that which has brought me into true obedience to God and man do I salute you,
desiring your growth in the spirit of holiness, which growth stands not in words,
but in life and power; wait to feel your increase therein,
and decrease in words which are out of the power of God.
Many have grown rich in words, have accounted that to be their growth without the life,
and have fed upon the knowledge more than upon life: upon such the famine is to come.
Therefore, dear hearts, yes exceedingly dear to me,
keep to the measure of God in your own particulars, and be obedient to its operation,
for as it is to work upon the soul,
so it works not without the soul`'s yielding obedience thereunto;
yet it is not the soul`'s work, but the work of God in and upon the soul.
For though Christ is come a light into the world, and is the salvation of God,
to them who believe in and obey him,
yet he is the condemnation of those who believe not in him; the light manifests evil,
and if the creature yields obedience to the light, it gives him power over evil;
yet not the creature`'s power, but the power of God,
which begets the will and the deed also.

Therefore perfect obedience to the light the Lord requires of everyone,
and daily to watch and wrestle against that which is condemnable by the light;
for so long as the creature knowingly lives in that (whether in
words or deeds) that it sees to be reprovable by the light,
it cannot enjoy perfect peace with God; for the peace of God is enjoyed in the light:
and truly, if that condemn, the Lord does not justify.
Many believe they are justified in the sight of God, through Christ,
although the witness of God lets them see that they are yet in their sins,
and condemns them for sin.
This faith (or rather unbelief) leads them to conclude that neither themselves
nor any others can be made free from all sin on this side of the grave,
and yet they imagine they are free from it in the sight of God.
But beware of that faith, it is not the true faith, the gift of God, which,
through Christ, saves from all sin.
It is hard for one in whose heart the wicked one has seated this faith, or persuasion,
to come to live in the life of truth, which is holy;
for when the light lets the soul see it is in its sins, brings trouble and condemnation,
and also a desire in the heart to be freed from sin;
even then the wicked one begets this persuasion in the creature,
that it cannot be freed from all sin here;
and this persuasion causes the creature to do despite to the Spirit of grace,
and strive to quench its reproofs, and so to get at ease in that wrong belief,
and sit down short of the peace of God.
So that which begat desires in the creature to be freed from sin,
comes to be veiled and slain.
Many thousands are in this state, boasting that they are justified by Christ,
and that he has done all for them, and if they can believe it that is sufficient,
although still in their sins.

Now the apostle Paul says, "`If while we seek to be justified by Christ,
we ourselves also are found sinners, is therefore Christ the minister of sin?
God forbid!
Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound?
God forbid! how shall we that are dead to sin live any longer therein?`"
Oh! in tender love I beseech you, to beware of that delusion of the wicked one,
for it is very dangerous, and a broad way, which the creature is prone to run into.
Now there is a great difference between such,
who with the light see much sin which they are addicted to, yet to be subdued,
and it is their sore burden, and they in the strength of the light wrestle against it,
and so find it daily decrease;
I say there is a great difference between those who are in this state,
travelling out of sin, out of Egypt, where the bondage is, towards Zion,
where the freedom is, and such as are set down satisfied,
in a false confidence and wrong belief, continuing in sin,
and believing they shall not be free from it here.
But you know otherwise, therefore abide in the life, which is the light of men,
the true light, which enlightens every man that comes into the world,
and is the salvation of God: therein wait,
and feel your minds exercised in its operation, for this changes the mind, the thoughts,
the affections, and desires; for as they have been earthly, so they become heavenly;
then it is the soul`'s delight to answer the end of the Lord,
and to endeavour to walk worthy of his love,
and it becomes its life to do the will of God.
But before this can be witnessed, the strait and narrow way must be known, felt,
and lived in; and there must be a passing through the fire, through the water,
through the one baptizing, which baptizes into death, and translates into life.

Oh! dear father and mother, keep, I beseech you,
to the gift of God in your own particulars, and be obedient to its leadings;
therein watch diligently, continually, and with it try your thoughts, words, and intents,
before you bring them forth; and if they be reprovable,
give them up to the fire to be consumed.
Dear hearts, it is in inexpressible love that I write thus unto you:
be very wary of speaking of things by contraries, which you are addicted to,
for there is no lie of the truth,
and he that abides in the truth is preserved out of the lie;
he that loves the light brings his deeds to the light to try them,
whether they be wrought in God.

So be not forward to utter words, but feel the light of Christ to guide and lead you,
and bring your thoughts and words to it, to try them:
now if they be reprovable by the light, then they are to die, and not be brought forth;
for if they be, this grieves the righteous Spirit of God, and breaks your peace with him;
for if his witness condemns, he does not justify,
so the creature keeping low in the pure fear and dread of the Lord, dares not do, speak,
or think that which it sees to be vain and evil, if it could gain the whole world by it.
But truly many professors are out of this condition;
though they can talk of the fear of the Lord,
scarcely one of a thousand is come into that state.
This is a hard saying, who is able to bear it?
Yet it is a true saying, though they will not believe it.

Oh! the largest talkers, even of the highest sort, are farthest from the life of truth,
which is holy; for such are settled on their lees, have been building long, very high,
and have gathered much riches; it is hard for these to lose all,
to have their building thrown down, and not one stone left upon another.
Oh! the Lord God of compassion is gathering many tender hearts from among them,
who hunger and breathe after Him, and are not satisfied with the husks, the shadows,
and dead forms in which they dwell; and, poor hearts, they have sought after the Lord,
even fervently, day after day, and year after year, but could not find him.
Such is the Lord now gathering into his fold, where they shall enjoy their Shepherd,
and their souls shall not lack.

So once more do I, in tender love, direct you to the gift of God in your own particulars:
keep in the fewness of words, for too many words become not those who profess godliness.
Let your words be few, and let them savour of the grace of God, which leads into a meek,
sober, modest, chaste life; that so your upright conduct may preach righteousness,
even to the convincing of those who have been as teachers over you,
whom you will come to see, as you keep to the measure of God`'s Spirit,
and know them to be a people whose minds are at liberty and at ease in the flesh.
Let their knowledge be never so large, their declarations never so high,
yet if such come not, and keep not to that which is to be a stay to the mind,
a stop to their thoughts, a bridle to their tongues, a light to their steps,
their knowledge, their declarations, their works, and their sufferings are all in vain;
and a babe of the heavenly birth sees and comprehends them.

Well, into the hand of the Lord do I commit you.
May you be gathered into and preserved in his pure fear,
watchful and diligent in the light, warring and wrestling in the strength of it,
against that which you see is to be mortified.

And, dear ones, one thing more I have to say unto you.
Beware of condemning one another for that evil which yourselves are addicted to;
but first see it subdued and mortified in yourselves, whether it be in word or action,
before you condemn others for it, though they be profane people;
and when you speak a word of reproof to any, beware of doing it in a light, frothy way,
as many do, even in the airy spirit, which brings forth the same things in themselves;
but let it be done in the sober, solid, seasoned, savoury spirit,
that it may reach the witness of God in them into whom you speak,
and then it will be profitable.
So the Lord God Almighty preserve me and you, and all his little ones,
in his holy awe and dread,
and enable us to pass the time of our pilgrimage here in fear and trembling.

[.signed-section-closing]
From your son,

[.signed-section-signature]
William Bennit

[.signed-section-context-close]
Bliborough Jail, 5th month, 1661.

Commit message:

fix inconsistent short headings error

letters/modernized/04-chapter-3.adoc, after:

[short="An Address to His Father and Mother"]
== Chapter III. An Address to His Father and Mother

[.salutation]
Dear Father and Mother,

My endeared love abounds towards you,
and in that which has brought me into true obedience to God and man do I salute you,
desiring your growth in the spirit of holiness, which growth stands not in words,
but in life and power; wait to feel your increase therein,
and decrease in words which are out of the power of God.
Many have grown rich in words, have accounted that to be their growth without the life,
and have fed upon the knowledge more than upon life: upon such the famine is to come.
Therefore, dear hearts, yes exceedingly dear to me,
keep to the measure of God in your own particulars, and be obedient to its operation,
for as it is to work upon the soul,
so it works not without the soul`'s yielding obedience thereunto;
yet it is not the soul`'s work, but the work of God in and upon the soul.
For though Christ is come a light into the world, and is the salvation of God,
to them who believe in and obey him,
yet he is the condemnation of those who believe not in him; the light manifests evil,
and if the creature yields obedience to the light, it gives him power over evil;
yet not the creature`'s power, but the power of God,
which begets the will and the deed also.

Therefore perfect obedience to the light the Lord requires of everyone,
and daily to watch and wrestle against that which is condemnable by the light;
for so long as the creature knowingly lives in that (whether in
words or deeds) that it sees to be reprovable by the light,
it cannot enjoy perfect peace with God; for the peace of God is enjoyed in the light:
and truly, if that condemn, the Lord does not justify.
Many believe they are justified in the sight of God, through Christ,
although the witness of God lets them see that they are yet in their sins,
and condemns them for sin.
This faith (or rather unbelief) leads them to conclude that neither themselves
nor any others can be made free from all sin on this side of the grave,
and yet they imagine they are free from it in the sight of God.
But beware of that faith, it is not the true faith, the gift of God, which,
through Christ, saves from all sin.
It is hard for one in whose heart the wicked one has seated this faith, or persuasion,
to come to live in the life of truth, which is holy;
for when the light lets the soul see it is in its sins, brings trouble and condemnation,
and also a desire in the heart to be freed from sin;
even then the wicked one begets this persuasion in the creature,
that it cannot be freed from all sin here;
and this persuasion causes the creature to do despite to the Spirit of grace,
and strive to quench its reproofs, and so to get at ease in that wrong belief,
and sit down short of the peace of God.
So that which begat desires in the creature to be freed from sin,
comes to be veiled and slain.
Many thousands are in this state, boasting that they are justified by Christ,
and that he has done all for them, and if they can believe it that is sufficient,
although still in their sins.

Now the apostle Paul says, "`If while we seek to be justified by Christ,
we ourselves also are found sinners, is therefore Christ the minister of sin?
God forbid!
Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound?
God forbid! how shall we that are dead to sin live any longer therein?`"
Oh! in tender love I beseech you, to beware of that delusion of the wicked one,
for it is very dangerous, and a broad way, which the creature is prone to run into.
Now there is a great difference between such,
who with the light see much sin which they are addicted to, yet to be subdued,
and it is their sore burden, and they in the strength of the light wrestle against it,
and so find it daily decrease;
I say there is a great difference between those who are in this state,
travelling out of sin, out of Egypt, where the bondage is, towards Zion,
where the freedom is, and such as are set down satisfied,
in a false confidence and wrong belief, continuing in sin,
and believing they shall not be free from it here.
But you know otherwise, therefore abide in the life, which is the light of men,
the true light, which enlightens every man that comes into the world,
and is the salvation of God: therein wait,
and feel your minds exercised in its operation, for this changes the mind, the thoughts,
the affections, and desires; for as they have been earthly, so they become heavenly;
then it is the soul`'s delight to answer the end of the Lord,
and to endeavour to walk worthy of his love,
and it becomes its life to do the will of God.
But before this can be witnessed, the strait and narrow way must be known, felt,
and lived in; and there must be a passing through the fire, through the water,
through the one baptizing, which baptizes into death, and translates into life.

Oh! dear father and mother, keep, I beseech you,
to the gift of God in your own particulars, and be obedient to its leadings;
therein watch diligently, continually, and with it try your thoughts, words, and intents,
before you bring them forth; and if they be reprovable,
give them up to the fire to be consumed.
Dear hearts, it is in inexpressible love that I write thus unto you:
be very wary of speaking of things by contraries, which you are addicted to,
for there is no lie of the truth,
and he that abides in the truth is preserved out of the lie;
he that loves the light brings his deeds to the light to try them,
whether they be wrought in God.

So be not forward to utter words, but feel the light of Christ to guide and lead you,
and bring your thoughts and words to it, to try them:
now if they be reprovable by the light, then they are to die, and not be brought forth;
for if they be, this grieves the righteous Spirit of God, and breaks your peace with him;
for if his witness condemns, he does not justify,
so the creature keeping low in the pure fear and dread of the Lord, dares not do, speak,
or think that which it sees to be vain and evil, if it could gain the whole world by it.
But truly many professors are out of this condition;
though they can talk of the fear of the Lord,
scarcely one of a thousand is come into that state.
This is a hard saying, who is able to bear it?
Yet it is a true saying, though they will not believe it.

Oh! the largest talkers, even of the highest sort, are farthest from the life of truth,
which is holy; for such are settled on their lees, have been building long, very high,
and have gathered much riches; it is hard for these to lose all,
to have their building thrown down, and not one stone left upon another.
Oh! the Lord God of compassion is gathering many tender hearts from among them,
who hunger and breathe after Him, and are not satisfied with the husks, the shadows,
and dead forms in which they dwell; and, poor hearts, they have sought after the Lord,
even fervently, day after day, and year after year, but could not find him.
Such is the Lord now gathering into his fold, where they shall enjoy their Shepherd,
and their souls shall not lack.

So once more do I, in tender love, direct you to the gift of God in your own particulars:
keep in the fewness of words, for too many words become not those who profess godliness.
Let your words be few, and let them savour of the grace of God, which leads into a meek,
sober, modest, chaste life; that so your upright conduct may preach righteousness,
even to the convincing of those who have been as teachers over you,
whom you will come to see, as you keep to the measure of God`'s Spirit,
and know them to be a people whose minds are at liberty and at ease in the flesh.
Let their knowledge be never so large, their declarations never so high,
yet if such come not, and keep not to that which is to be a stay to the mind,
a stop to their thoughts, a bridle to their tongues, a light to their steps,
their knowledge, their declarations, their works, and their sufferings are all in vain;
and a babe of the heavenly birth sees and comprehends them.

Well, into the hand of the Lord do I commit you.
May you be gathered into and preserved in his pure fear,
watchful and diligent in the light, warring and wrestling in the strength of it,
against that which you see is to be mortified.

And, dear ones, one thing more I have to say unto you.
Beware of condemning one another for that evil which yourselves are addicted to;
but first see it subdued and mortified in yourselves, whether it be in word or action,
before you condemn others for it, though they be profane people;
and when you speak a word of reproof to any, beware of doing it in a light, frothy way,
as many do, even in the airy spirit, which brings forth the same things in themselves;
but let it be done in the sober, solid, seasoned, savoury spirit,
that it may reach the witness of God in them into whom you speak,
and then it will be profitable.
So the Lord God Almighty preserve me and you, and all his little ones,
in his holy awe and dread,
and enable us to pass the time of our pilgrimage here in fear and trembling.

[.signed-section-closing]
From your son,

[.signed-section-signature]
William Bennit

[.signed-section-context-close]
Bliborough Jail, 5th month, 1661.
